docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to add a blog to your documentation site using the Starlight Blog plugin.
---

A [Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build) plugin to add a blog to your documentation site.

- Link to the blog in the header
- Post list with pagination
- Global and per-post authors
- Tags
- Cover images
- Custom sidebar with recent/featured posts and tags
- RSS

Check out the [demo](/blog/) for a preview of the blog.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have a Starlight website set up.
If you don't have one yet, you can follow the ["Getting Started"](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started) guide in the Starlight docs to create one.

## Installation

import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'
import { PackageManagers } from '@hideoo/starlight-plugins-docs-components'

<Steps>

1. Starlight Blog is a Starlight [plugin](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/plugins/). Install it using your favorite package manager:

   <PackageManagers pkg="starlight-blog" />

2. Configure the plugin in your Starlight [configuration](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/configuration/#plugins) in the `astro.config.mjs` file.

   ```diff lang="js"
   // astro.config.mjs
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
   +import starlightBlog from 'starlight-blog'

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
   +      plugins: [starlightBlog()],
         title: 'My Docs',
       }),
     ],
   })
   ```

3. Starlight Blog uses Astro’s [content collections](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/content-collections/), which are configured in the `src/content.config.ts` file.

   Update the content config file to add support for customizing individual blog posts using their frontmatter:

   ```diff lang="ts"
   // src/content.config.ts
   import { defineCollection } from 'astro:content';
   import { docsLoader } from '@astrojs/starlight/loaders';
   import { docsSchema } from '@astrojs/starlight/schema';
   +import { blogSchema } from 'starlight-blog/schema'

   export const collections = {
     docs: defineCollection({
       loader: docsLoader(),
       schema: docsSchema({
   +      extend: (context) => blogSchema(context)
       })
     }),
   };
   ```

4. Create your first blog post by creating a `.md` or `.mdx` file in the `src/content/docs/blog/` directory:

   ```md
   ---
   // src/content/docs/blog/my-first-blog-post.md
   title: My first blog post
   date: 2023-07-24
   ---

   ## Hello

   Hello world!
   ```

5. [Start the development server](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/#start-the-development-server) to preview your blog.

</Steps>

The Starlight Blog plugin behavior can be tweaked using various [configuration options](/configuration).

Commit message:

docs: add note about multiple schema extends (#188)

docs/src/content/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to add a blog to your documentation site using the Starlight Blog plugin.
---

A [Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build) plugin to add a blog to your documentation site.

- Link to the blog in the header
- Post list with pagination
- Global and per-post authors
- Tags
- Cover images
- Custom sidebar with recent/featured posts and tags
- RSS

Check out the [demo](/blog/) for a preview of the blog.

## Prerequisites

You will need to have a Starlight website set up.
If you don't have one yet, you can follow the ["Getting Started"](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started) guide in the Starlight docs to create one.

## Installation

import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components'
import { PackageManagers } from '@hideoo/starlight-plugins-docs-components'

<Steps>

1. Starlight Blog is a Starlight [plugin](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/plugins/). Install it using your favorite package manager:

   <PackageManagers pkg="starlight-blog" />

2. Configure the plugin in your Starlight [configuration](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/configuration/#plugins) in the `astro.config.mjs` file.

   ```diff lang="js"
   // astro.config.mjs
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight'
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config'
   +import starlightBlog from 'starlight-blog'

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
   +      plugins: [starlightBlog()],
         title: 'My Docs',
       }),
     ],
   })
   ```

3. Starlight Blog uses Astro’s [content collections](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/content-collections/), which are configured in the `src/content.config.ts` file.

   Update the content config file to add support for customizing individual blog posts using their frontmatter:

   ```diff lang="ts"
   // src/content.config.ts
   import { defineCollection } from 'astro:content';
   import { docsLoader } from '@astrojs/starlight/loaders';
   import { docsSchema } from '@astrojs/starlight/schema';
   +import { blogSchema } from 'starlight-blog/schema'

   export const collections = {
     docs: defineCollection({
       loader: docsLoader(),
       schema: docsSchema({
   +      extend: (context) => blogSchema(context)
       })
     }),
   };
   ```

   If you are already [extending Starlight’s schema](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/frontmatter/#extend) with additional fields, you can rely on [Zod's API](https://v3.zod.dev/?id=merge) to compose schemas together, e.g. `blogSchema(context).merge(mySchema)`.

4. Create your first blog post by creating a `.md` or `.mdx` file in the `src/content/docs/blog/` directory:

   ```md
   ---
   // src/content/docs/blog/my-first-blog-post.md
   title: My first blog post
   date: 2023-07-24
   ---

   ## Hello

   Hello world!
   ```

5. [Start the development server](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/#start-the-development-server) to preview your blog.

</Steps>

The Starlight Blog plugin behavior can be tweaked using various [configuration options](/configuration).
